Add GeoStyler Code Sprint 2023 blog post (#14)
geostyler/geostyler-homepage: content/codesprint-2023/contributions.md

+++
fragment = "content"
weight = 40
background = "light"

#title = "GeoStyler Code Sprint 2023"
+++

## Contributions

During the Code Sprint, we achieved the following:

<img src="/images/geostyler-codesprint-2023-stats.png" alt="GeoStyler Code Sprint Stats" height="800px" />

<br />

### GeoStyler CLI

> The [GeoStyler CLI](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-cli) can now additionally be used as standalone executable! There is no need to install NodeJs anymore, if you just want to convert between different styling formats without using the UI. The executables can be downloaded for each version from the [repository](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-cli/releases). We support Linux, MacOS and Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [GeoStyler CLI](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-cli) can now additionally be used as standalone executable! There is no need to install Node.js anymore, if you just want to convert between different styling formats without using the UI. The executables can be downloaded for each version from the [repository](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-cli/releases). We support Linux, MacOS and Windows.
```

The previously introduced `GeoStylerContext` was also implemented in various components, which will simplify adjusting the GeoStyler UI to your needs.

![GeoStyler UI Modal Example](/images/geostyler-codesprint-2023-modals.gif)

Kudos to [@dnlkoch](https://github.com/dnlkoch), [@SchulA](https://github.com/SchulA), [@jansule](https://github.com/jansule) and [@hwbllmnn](https://github.com/hwbllmnn).

### GeoStyler Mapbox Parser

We spent quite some time discussing the [geostyler-mapbox-parser](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-mapbox-parser) and how we can integrate the concept of map-based styles (which mapbox is using) in addition to layer-based styles (which SLD is using) in GeoStyler. We came to the conclusion that layers in mapbox fit quite well to the idea of rules in layer-based styles. Both are entities consisting of filters, scale denominators and styling instructions. With the support for expressions in GeoStyler in particular, we should now be able to advance the development of the geostyler-mapbox-parser and make it a first class citizen in the GeoStyler ecosystem.

> Besides that, the geostyler-mapbox-parser is now able create lossless conversions between mapbox styles and geostyler-styles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Thats not true. :)

Author: Rephrased

> Besides that, the geostyler-mapbox-parser is now able create lossless conversions between mapbox styles and geostyler-styles.

Author: Rephrased
